Hi Brent,

Here's my feedback. As always, my advice is most suited to undergrad programs.

Your teaching statement is generally in great shape, but I do have a few
suggestions. 
- DONE: Move the summary of your teaching experience + your teaching award to
  the beginning. It's the thing committees most want to know about your
  teaching. Plus then your COP 3402 example in "I Reward Success" will have
  more context.
- DONE: In the first sentence of your teaching experience, you say "I taught"
  -- I would change that to "I was the instructor of record for." Grad students
  are often trying to make whatever experience they have sound as impressive as
  possible, so "taught" can mean a lot of things. Even though it becomes clear
  later, better to start off clear.
- DONE: I might provide some context for the Systems Software course, since
  it's such a big part of your teaching experience. Who takes it? At what point
  in the curriculum? How many students? What are the usual pain points? etc.
- DONE: Similarly, I'd make the second sentence a harder hit on the point that
  you have taken ownership of the curriculum. Instead of "I have been gradually
  updating", maybe "I have made it my own by..." or something a little
  stronger.
- DONE: Do you have any pedagogical training? (Workshops from your teaching
  center, etc.) This paragraph where you describe the teaching innovations
  you've added might be a good place to reference that.
- DONE: Your list of classes you want to teach in the conclusion is good -- it
  has a point of view without being solely a bunch of bespoke classes on your
  exact research topics. I can't tell you how many times I've written "no
  evidence they want to teach undergrads" or "no evidence they want to teach
  lower division" in my notes on a candidate.
- DONE: Everything else is good -- it's really just providing granular evidence
  that you have thought about your teaching and actually got actionable
  insights from your experience.

I've never been on a search committee where we requested diversity statements,
so that's not a literary form I'm as familiar with. Here are some things to
consider:
- Consider moving the "first-gen grad student" thing to earlier in the
  statement. This shows that you have some understanding of what it's like to
  step into an unfamiliar culture.
- The word "Anglo" isn't used everywhere in the US -- it is in Texas but not in
  California, for example. (Cards on the table, I personally hate it because I
  am white but 0% English and 50% people who actively fought the English.)
  Maybe just "European"?
- A couple things you could think about including: first, there's not a lot of
  discussion of how some groups have been systematically excluded from computer
  science (sometimes as an artifact of higher education generally, sometimes
  more specifically). Saying that most of the achievements in CS are by white
  dudes without this caveat may hit the wrong way. It also may impact the way
  you think about supporting students. Second, do you want to talk at all about
  disability? Disability accommodations and really thinking about the
  accessibility of what you teach are a big part of teaching. If you don't have
  anything to say about these topics, feel free to ignore this, but these are
  things I might push you on if this were an interview question instead of a
  statement.
- UCF demographics are smart to include, I think. Too many people handle the
  diversity question by being like "the students in my graduate program are
  from many nations!" And...of course they are; that's how graduate programs
  work. That doesn't necessarily relate to the demographic/economic backgrounds
  of the undergraduate students you teach and how (un)comfortable they are in
  higher ed generally and computer science specifically. By looking at the UCF
  population as a whole, I think you avoid that trap.

- Research statement is outstanding and not worth optimizing further imho. What
  I look for when reading a research statement is pretty simple, and you clear
  that bar:
- Can you contextualize the research that you did during your Ph.D.? Can you
  talk about why it's important and weave it into a coherent narrative?
- Was your research good enough? By which I mean: if you come work for us, your
  most high-powered research days are likely behind you. So assuming you've
  peaked, is the peak high enough that you can be a reasonable resource to
  undergraduate students who might be interested in graduate school or research
  careers?
- Do you have substantive plans for what to do next? Are you going to be able
  to get out of your advisor's shadow?
- Is it clear that you've thought about how to do those things in an
  undergraduate context?

Hope this helps!

Best,
Suzanne
